README.md, before:

# ROS2-GO2

This repository contains a ROS2 workspace with rviz and gazebo integrated with Go2.
Rviz is used for visualization and is useful for testing the robot's perception and navigation capabilities, while Gazebo provides a simulation environment for testing and development in real world scenarios. For now, the world used is the empty world provided by Gazebo, but it can be modified to include more complex environments.

## Installation and Usage
To set up and run the ROS2-Go2 workspace, follow these steps:
1. Clone the repository to your local machine:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/palingenesys/Ros2-go2/
cd Ros2-go2
```
2. Build the Docker image:
```bash
cd go2_ws/docker
./build.sh
```

3. Start the Docker container:
```bash
./start.sh
```

4. Install tmux inside the Docker container:
```bash
apt-get update
apt-get install -y tmux

# run those commands for opening new terminal while running the container
tmux new -s s1
tmux new -s s2

# open an active session (where s1 and s2 are the sessions names)
tmux a -t s1
```

5. Inside the Docker container, source the ROS2 and workspace setup files:
```bash
cd workspace/src
colcon build
source /opt/ros/humble/setup.bash
source workspace/src/install/setup.bash
```

6. Launch the Gazebo simulation with the Go2 robot:
```bash
ros2 launch go2_config gazebo.launch.py
```

7. In a new tmux session inside the Docker container, launch RViz:
```bash
cd workspace/src
colcon build
source workspace/src/install/setup.bash
ros2 launch go2_config gazebo.launch.py rviz:=true
```

Commit message:

Update RViz launch instructions in README
Clarified instructions for launching RViz in Docker.

README.md, after:

# ROS2-GO2

This repository contains a ROS2 workspace with rviz and gazebo integrated with Go2.
Rviz is used for visualization and is useful for testing the robot's perception and navigation capabilities, while Gazebo provides a simulation environment for testing and development in real world scenarios. For now, the world used is the empty world provided by Gazebo, but it can be modified to include more complex environments.

## Installation and Usage
To set up and run the ROS2-Go2 workspace, follow these steps:
1. Clone the repository to your local machine:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/palingenesys/Ros2-go2/
cd Ros2-go2
```
2. Build the Docker image:
```bash
cd go2_ws/docker
./build.sh
```

3. Start the Docker container:
```bash
./start.sh
```

4. Install tmux inside the Docker container:
```bash
apt-get update
apt-get install -y tmux

# run those commands for opening new terminal while running the container
tmux new -s s1
tmux new -s s2

# open an active session (where s1 and s2 are the sessions names)
tmux a -t s1
```

5. Inside the Docker container, source the ROS2 and workspace setup files:
```bash
cd workspace/src
colcon build
source /opt/ros/humble/setup.bash
source workspace/src/install/setup.bash
```

6. Launch the Gazebo simulation with the Go2 robot:
```bash
ros2 launch go2_config gazebo.launch.py
```

7. Or if you want to launch also Rviz, in a new tmux session inside the Docker container, launch the following node:
```bash
cd workspace/src
colcon build
source workspace/src/install/setup.bash
ros2 launch go2_config gazebo.launch.py rviz:=true
```
